Add docs about installing the precompiled binaries (#255)
rust-marker/marker: docs/book/src/usage/ci.md

# CI

Marker's explicit goal is to make it easy to use on CI. This document describes the provided CI tooling and demonstrates example templates.

<!-- toc -->

## GitHub Action

Marker provides a GitHub Action that downloads the pre-compiled binaries and runs `cargo marker`.

<!-- region replace-version stable -->

```yml
- uses: rust-marker/marker@v0.2
```

### Git tags

The git tag used for the GitHub Action selects the version of Marker that will be installed. There are several flavours of git tags:

- Sliding `v0.2` *(recommended)*. Use this to get automatic patch updates.
- Fixed `v0.2.1`. Use this if you want to pin a specific version if there is a regression in a new patch version. If there is one, please create a [new issue], patch versions must never break anything!

<!-- endregion replace-version stable -->

> > ⚠️ Different `v0.{minor}` versions contain breaking changes. There is `v0` git tag, but because there are breaking changes on each minor release it doesn't make sense to use it. However once Marker reaches `1.0` minor versions will be compatible and `v1` tag will be stable.

Reviewer: Formulation suggestion:

```suggestion
> ⚠️ The minor versions before Marker `v1` contain breaking changes. While there is a sliding `v0` tag, it's highly recommended to include the minor version as well. This prevents uncontrolled CI breakage with every release
```

Side note: I plan to write a chapter on stability, once v0.3.0 has been released.

### Inputs

All inputs are optional, they only allow tweaking the default behavior.

| Name         | Description                                               | Type      | Default |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------|---------|
| `install-only` | Only install Marker and don't run `cargo marker` command. | `boolean` | `false` |

> ### Example workflows

Reviewer: I think this chapter is missing a reference, which lints will be used. What are your thoughts on adding this paragraph here?

```
These example workflows will use the lint crates specified in the `Cargo.toml` file by default. Refer to the [*Lint Crate Declaration*](./lint-crate-declaration.md) section for more information.
```

Rendered:

> These example workflows will use the lint crates specified in the `Cargo.toml` file by default. Refer to the [*Lint Crate Declaration*](./lint-crate-declaration.md) section for more information.

#### Basic usage

Checkout the repository code, install the toolchain, Marker, and start linting.

```yml
jobs:
    rust-marker-lints:

>         runs-on: ubuntu-latest

Reviewer: Warnings will cause rustc and Marker to still exit with 0, for CI we would want to deny warnings:

```suggestion
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        env:
            RUSTFLAGS: --deny warnings
```

The `env` field could also be specified above the `jobs` section, like it's done in Marker's CI, but having it here should make copy-and-pasta :spaghetti: easier :)

Same for the example below.

Author: Yeah, totally forgot about this one, thanks

        steps:
            - uses: actions/checkout@v4
            - uses: actions-rust-lang/setup-rust-toolchain@v1
            - uses: rust-marker/marker@v0.2
```

#### Advanced usage

> If you need something more than just `cargo marker` you may use the action to only install Marker and run custom commands using `cargo marker` manually just like in your local dev environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need something more than just the `cargo marker` command, you may use the action to only install Marker and then manually run the `cargo marker` command, just like in your local dev environment.
```

> Here is an example of how you could limit the set of crates that you want to lint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how you could limit the set of crates that you want to lint. Refer to `cargo marker --help` for a full list of available options.
```

### GitHub-managed runners

The action is cross-platform. It supports Windows, Linux and MacOS. It is tested on all [OS images supported by managed GitHub Actions runners].

If GitHub releases a newer OS image version it is very likely that this action will still "just work" on it. We make sure to add new OS images that GitHub-managed runners support to our CI test suite, as well as remove support for the old ones following the GitHub Actions's OS images deprecation cadance.

### Self-hosted runners

The action must work on self-hosted runners out of the box as well. We don't test all possible operating systems on our CI, but if your self-hosted runners use the OS version from the range of [OS images supported by managed GitHub Actions runners] or other compatible distributions, then it should work. If you have some exotic OS setup which breaks our GitHub Action we will be interested to hear about that in a [new issue].

## Other CI systems

If you don't use GitHub Actions CI, you can still benefit from the pre-made installation scripts that automate the downloading of the pre-compiled binaries on CI for you.

> These ones slightly differ from the scripts mentioned in the [installation chapter](installation.md#download-pre-compiled-binaries-recommended). They are more verbose for additional readability in the CI templates, and they also contain additional options to retry spurious network errors for stability on CI.

Reviewer: Super NIT: I think the "These ones" could be confusing, since we talked about installation scripts earlier.

```suggestion
These curl commands differ slightly from the scripts mentioned in the [installation chapter](installation.md#download-pre-compiled-binaries-recommended). They are more verbose for additional readability in the CI templates, and they also contain additional options to retry spurious network errors for stability on CI.
```
